>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Nice little
introduction to records and classes.
Boom, let's move on to inheritance.
This is probably, I'd say, one of the,
besides classes, another really important
kinda thing to understand about
object-oriented languages in C Sharp.
First of all, I've mentioned that
all objects inherit from object.
So if I declare my person class again,
boom, put my name property back,
I can basically inherit from another
object, and that means collect
the properties and behaviors of that
object and put it into my class.
So the syntax to do so
would be colon after this.
Kinda like when you call a constructor and
then you declare the name of the object.
The type of the object,
I should say, the type of the class.
This is a superfluous thing to say,
because person will always
inherit from object.
Object is always in
the inheritance hierarchy.
So inheritance means that objects
can be infinitely inherited.
You could have a monkey that inherits
from animal, that inherits from organism,
that ultimately inherits from object,
for instance.
This is superfluous to say.
But this gets really important
when you're starting to talk about
kind of advanced ways to model real
world things in your application.
Let's take this example for instance.
We're gonna move on to the employees.
And spoiler alert, we're gonna
do a lot of employees in the AS.
There's gonna be a lot
of employees classes and
use of them in the ASP net course.
So I can have what I've defined as my
base employee and what I've wanted to do
is just say, I want an employee and let's
just say that for the sake of argument
that I wanted an employee where I just
wanted that person to be represented.
I don't necessarily intend for
this type to be used directly, but
I just want to have a base thing,
because all employees, they always
have a first name and a last name.
All payroll systems contain that data.
They'll probably contain your social,
your date of birth and
other properties like that.
But you might have additional
behaviors that you
want to apply to something
like an hourly employee.
And so hourly employees are treated
differently from salary.
So you may choose in your
system to model it as such.
So in this case,
I've modeled it such that my hourly
employee inherits from my base employee.
And the implication of that is that
if I create that employee object,
let's say, and you notice that I don't
have any name or any first name or
last name declared anywhere on here,
nor do I have this method.
And we'll talk about these methods and
we haven't gotten to
the behaviors of classes really.
We'll mention that in a second.
So if I want to declare
an hourly employee, and
his name is hourly employee, and
we're gonna name him first name George.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Last name,
Harold, all right.
If I go and
I look at this hourly employee,
even though this is the type that
I've instantiated right here,
because I've inherited from base employee,
I've inherited all of the properties and
all of the behaviors of
the base employee class.
So I'm able to say, yes,
I want my first name.
Yes, I want my last name.
But in addition, I also want my hourly
rate because an hourly employee has
an hourly rate associated with them.
So I can also choose to add that to here,
right?
And by the way, the M key is just
to denote that this is a decimal.
There's special keywords for
declaring certain types of numbers, and
M is the one for the decimal type.
So that's in a nutshell,
the first part of inheritance.
But the rabbit hole gets deeper and
it's very important.
So I mentioned that classes
cannot only have properties, but
they can have behaviors.
Up to this point, we've really only
looked at classes that had properties.
That's what I wanted you to focus on,
because that's a lot of times what I'm
creating classes that just are a bag of
properties and don't have behaviors, but
sometimes they have both.
So you notice that I have a method
here called get employee details.
And this get employee details has
an implementation that basically says,
return first name and last name.
So if I call get employee
details on this person,
so Console.WriteLine, employee details.
I use method syntax to call it.
It does not take parameters, so it's just
an open and close parentheses at the end.
Otherwise, the compiler will complain,
you don't wanna do that.
And then I am going to dotnet run, and
you can see that
George Herold's name is called.
Now because of inheritance,
my hourly employee has access
to this GetEmployeeDetails.
Let's talk about
accessibility a little bit.
This might be a method that I
don't want other things to call,
not even derived classes.
Hourly employees considered what's called
a derived class for base employee.
So accessibility can be used to close this
method off even from derived instances of
this method.
So let's say, protected,
first and foremost,
protected is a keyword that will basically
say the only people that have access
to this thing are the class itself and
the derived class within the class scope.
But anything outside of that scope is
not something that it has access to.
So you can see that now all of a sudden
we're getting a compiler error.
However, if we wanted to call
GetEmployeeDetails from within our hourly
employee class,
we absolutely could do that.
That's something that we can do because
it is derived from base employee.
So protected basically says anything
in the object hierarchy can have
access to this method.
However, if I mark it private,
the only thing that can access
GetEmployeeDetails is
the base employee class.
First things first, we'll talk about
this virtual keyword here in a second.
Virtual or
abstract methods cannot be private.
So that makes sense,
which we'll explain in a second.
So we would say this.
And then you would see that now all of
a sudden even our derived class can access
this what's called a private member.
And that applies to properties
as well as methods.
So this is the idea of behaviors in
a class in addition to just properties.
And it also illustrates
kind of the importance and
significance of accessibility modifiers.
Protected, private and public
are the ones that I use 99% of the time.
I will use one called internal,
which means that it's only accessible
within the assembly that you have.
So the compiled thing that you have and
isn't accessible to other assemblies.
A little bit outside the scope, just know
that it exists if you ever encounter it